hello and welcome to april 2021 what i'm
gonna do in this
little lesson is answer all of your
questions about
ielts if you have a burning question
that you really want answered about
ielts or anything
else actually pop it into the comments
below and the more specific your
question is
the better it is for me let's get
cracking
muhammad asks i want to give a free
ielts
speaking mock test can i i like your
enthusiasm there muhammad but it's a
little bit difficult to give
free speaking mock tests because we
employ
very high level teachers in fact
many of our ielts teachers are
ex-examiners so we can't really
make them work for free but mohammed you
can join our free
ielts live classes if you sign up to
e2language.com
all right next question cavilla shark
hi explain how to give clear position in
essay thank you don't forget you are
best and continue working hard for
students
thank you i will continue to work hard
for students
okay how to give a clear position which
is very important
in your ielts essay what that really
means is
if you have to give an opinion then you
need to make your opinion
clear throughout the entire essay you
need to make your opinion or your stance
or what you believe
clear in your introduction your body
paragraph one
your body paragraph two and your
conclusion and you cannot
contradict yourself okay you can
certainly mention the other side of the
argument
but only in relation to the fact that
you disagree with it
so your argument your position your
opinion needs to be clear from beginning
to end cool
world of desires is there any updates in
ielts exams for example removed given
examples parts instead of sections any
other changes
rest assured world of desires that there
are no
changes to the ielts test and if there
are any changes we will be the first
ones to let you know about them
there are really two places where you
should get your information from
one is the official ielts websites like
ielts.com.au or british council
and us please don't believe any rumors
you hear
oleg jay the only way you could become
more cool bananas
is if you skateboarder
i'm going to give academic exam next
month and i'm completely blank for
writing tasks
the biggest worry is how to make complex
structured sentences
modi yes academic writing task one is
often overlooked people focus a lot on
the essay and fair enough it's worth
two-thirds of your mark but you cannot
overlook academic writing task one you
need to join our live classes we will
teach you all about
academic writing task one and we'll also
complex sentence structures as well
these are live classes delivered by our
expert
teachers you can actually sign up for
free and try them out first
catherine hi jay i'm struggling with my
grammar please help
wow catherine that was a pretty good
sentence there's no grammatical errors
there so that's a good start but
i hear you english grammar is very
complicated and confusing
hmm what can you do we actually have
free grammar classes
also in our live classes you can join
those
or you can check out e2school.com that's
e2school.com there is a free
grammar review course there that is e2
language's
sister website for skill building
iqbal what's your suggestion if i get
hypothetical question
in the cue card okay i think iqbal is
referring to
speaking part 2 where the examiner will
give you a
cue card and you need to speak about a
certain topic
for two minutes they're not usually
hypothetical questions iqbal they're
usually something that you've
experienced in your life
the cue card will be about a person for
example someone famous or
an occupation or it might be about a
place talk about a museum
or an art gallery or it might be about a
thing
bicycles books or it might be about
something more
abstract like websites or aspirations or
something like that
so there's nothing really hypothetical
there so
i wouldn't worry too much about having
to use hypothetical language
diraj how many band scores do i need to
get
to australia from india with subjects
like history politics english
fine arts so deraj it depends on the
university that you're
trying to get into and it depends on the
course
some courses require a higher band score
than others and as do some universities
generally it's around the ielts 6 to 6.5
i think a masters or postgraduate degree
is higher than that
i encourage you to check the website of
the particular university that you're
applying to
cass hello jay i'm planning to take the
ielts this year
how to pass through effortlessly in
writing task part one
i have difficulty with this part thank
you
okay so it depends if you're doing
general writing task one
or academic writing task one because
they are very different in general you
write a letter
a formal semi-formal or informal letter
and in
academic writing task one you have to
describe these crazy graphs
right so it depends which one you're
doing i just
strongly encourage you to watch the
methods lessons on e2language.com
because we go through if it's academic
we go through all of the different graph
types
which is great and if it's general we go
through all of the different letter
types as well
so the methods lessons on e2language.com
might save you there
muhammad during cue card
two minutes speaking can we see the card
where we written the bullet points
yes muhammad so the examiner will give
you that cue card you get to keep that
cue card for the entire
one minute preparation time and then the
additional two minutes when you're
speaking
islam sajal hello jay i want to take
ielts but i can't give
full concentration to my study sometimes
i study hard then i become lazy
i can't do this continually i don't know
what to do
please provide me some suggestions so
islam to joel it's i think it's very
difficult to self
study right it's very difficult to find
the motivation to think
yes i'm going to prepare for my ielts
test i can't wait for that
that's kind of tough you need a
community
and i really recommend having a teacher
or teachers as well
think about personal training i don't
know if you've ever gone to the gym by
yourself
but you'll work out to a certain degree
and you'll stay for a certain length of
time you won't really push yourself
if you have a personal trainer you'll
push yourself
far beyond any boundary that you would
do by yourself
it's the same thing with study and
that's why we have expert teachers on
e2language.com
and the live classes and your your
friends in the live classes as well
it will help you to push yourself beyond
your usual boundaries
tristica help in listening section if we
do mistake in singular and plural words
do we get marks for that
for example writing lights instead of
light
shristica you will be penalized if you
put a
singular noun like light when it should
be a plural noun
like lights you are also penalized on
spelling in listening which personally
i'm not a fan of because what does
spelling
have to do with listening nothing but
these are the rules of the ielts test
so you'll need to be particularly
careful
android c hi jay can you help me with a
good self-introduction
i am a housewife neither got a job nor
is studying
how can i convey it confidently
right so android c is talking about
speaking part one when the examiner is
going to ask you some very
uh basic personal questions about
yourself like
do you work or do you study don't
worry if you don't work or you don't
study they're not
assessing you on whether you have a
great job or what you're studying or is
interesting or anything like that okay
so just talk about being a housewife
maybe talk about what you do
they'll also have follow-up questions
which would change the topic completely
they might ask you for example do you
like the rain
and then you have to talk about the rain
so it's only a couple of questions about
yourself
before the topics deviate franklin
many companies hire workers when needed
and cut
down workers when they are no longer
needed describe the advantages and
disadvantages my friend got this topic
on the 3rd of march
right so i guess that essay topic is
about
contract workers or the casualization of
the workforce
ok so what you need to think about there
is
the advantages for the employer for
example
because it's kind of good to have people
come in and work for a short time and a
particular project then you
fire them all and what's it like for an
employee it's probably not so good
because you lose benefits
so this happens in the preparation time
in the planning stage of your essay
so you need to sit there for about two
minutes and just think
what's good about contract workers
what's bad about contract workers
jot down some ideas that will become
your essay
and as i said before about position make
your position very clear
from beginning to end i
hari jay in ielts speaking can you
deviate
from a topic for instance in part two
you are asked to speak about a tv
program on science topic
and if you are not really into science
program and have watched the history
program for instance can we speak about
it
okay so the cue card that you get in
speaking part two
won't be as specific as you're saying
here they won't ask you to talk about
a science tv program they might ask you
to talk about
a tv program in which case you can talk
about the history program that you
actually like
so just to reiterate they won't be very
specific topics that you'll
talk about they'll just say talk about a
book or talk about
an influential person okay rest assured
zanetool thanks a lot jay you are so
special teacher in the universe
here's a weird idea if the universe is
infinitely large it means that there are
infinite numbers of earths
and j teachers so i may not be as
special as you think
and i want to get gt general training
reading practice tips as well as
including listening part three
zone tool in the description below we
have a downloadable pdf
for you it's the ultimate ielts guide it
goes through all the different sections
of the ielts test and gives you lots of
tips and tricks and stuff like that
so make sure you download that but i
encourage you to check out
e2language.com and come along to our
live
group classes megy maggie
finally got my results today eight on my
first try for general training
eight point five eight and seven binge
watched
super method strategies and a lot the
day before the test with the foundation
built from a couple of months of using
the e2 ielts website and youtube channel
thank you e2
thank you very much maggie maggie you
look very happy in your photograph there
and i'm sure you're
even happier now cure
jay how can i improve my conversation
with a bit of humor i can't seem to
respond to my foreign colleagues when
they tell sarcastic jokes
or dry british humor i just find myself
saying haha
by the way your channel is the best wow
cure this is a this is a great question
so basically how can i become
funnier i think you learn to be funny
and you learn the dynamic of the people
that you're involved with at work for
example
so after a while you'll start to get
what their humor
is so just listen just relax and listen
and laugh i'm sure that's fine
and after a while you'll be able to
crack some really good jokes yourself
hopefully shrino brother please give the
prediction for the 20th of march
2021 ielts exam in india please try to
give predictions that will be more
useful to us
love from your brother india
[Music]
i have no idea what's going to be on
your ielts exam i'm sorry
trying to predict the topic is virtually
impossible yeah
the best thing you can do if you're
worried about writing for example
is learn the structures because then
no matter what topic you get you can
write according to the structure
and all you're really doing is changing
out the vocabulary
and that's probably your best bet in
terms of trying to predict the reading
no not going to happen listening well
you know there's probably going to be a
map thing in there there's going to be
a listening part one where you listen to
a phone call etc a bit
i'm sorry you can't predict what's going
to be on the test
if only run via does it
necessary to wear a mask while giving
ielts speaking even if we are not
comfortable with it
ranvir you'll have to check with your
local testing
center because it depends so
yes check with them run vr again can we
get a high score without having a good
command over english
runveer i'm sorry my man
you cannot get a good score in ielts
unless you have a good command of
english
after all this is an english test if
anyone tells you
otherwise they are a
charlatan ray-ray jay your ppf method
for the speaking part is really proven
and tested
i had band score 7 for speaking test
last 2018.
i just followed your method and just
recently on march the 6th to be exact
i renewed my answer blah blah blah blah
got an eight this time for speaking
thank you so much god bless you
good on you ray-ray i think the ppf
method is a ripper
it just works but you do need to
practice it
come along to our live ielts speaking
practice
which is once a month but in order to do
that you'll need to be a subscriber to
this youtube channel
ielts is such an old-fashioned type of
test
they need to update it says
i find one part of the ielts a little
bit strange and that's in
general writing task one where you need
to write a letter
to a friend and sometimes you have to
write a letter to like a bank manager
it's like
i don't know about you but i've people
don't write letters to the local bank
manager in australia
anymore not since 1965.
amandeep jay is it any way you can check
out writing
i can't do it personally but we have
expert
markers so when you take our mock test
or submit a writing assessment
through e2language.com it gets sent to
one of these
expert teachers who look very carefully
at it they correct it for you
and they give you a score according to
the criteria you get this lovely report
card back
with lots of feedback on what you're
doing right
which is helpful and more importantly
what you're doing wrong omar what are
your other interests and hobbies
thank you very much for asking omar in
my spare time
what do i do um
i play aussie rules football i rock
climb
i read i meditate
i rest i like resting resting is my
favorite hobby at the moment
leo jay what is the most useful verb
tense in speaking from part one to part
three
hmm that's a good question in part one
they're
asking you about yourself and your
routine so you're probably going to use
the simple
present i go i exercise
i eat at i go to sleep at etc
in speaking part two with the cue card
you're probably going to be talking
about the pass
so using past tense verbs but you can
send certainly
mix it up if you use the ppf method past
present future and bring in some present
continuous
awesome present perfect and even for the
future maybe some modals
conditionals etc and in part three
well that's more of a philosophical
discussion it's probably more like i
think blah blah blah probably in the
present simple so
it's a pretty much a full range to be
honest
ish deep are academic writing essays of
the same difficulty as the general
training essays
if someone is preparing for gt can you
practice academic essay writing
ishtev that's a very interesting
question let me just say that they're
very similar in their format so the
essays that you see in general training
and the essays that you see in academic
almost are identical however
the general training will be slightly
simpler
now we have some very exciting news we
have a video coming up
on this channel where i'm going to
actually interview somebody from idp
about the differences between the
general training and the academic
part of the exam so if you want to watch
that video which will be coming up
soon click that subscribe button
joshia i have understood the techniques
for reading and i am able to do well in
your mock test videos yet i feel lost
seeing the huge passages in the real
test any advice for me
jay yeah so joshia my
tip of the day here is that the
questions
usually follow i say usually 95 of the
time
follow the same sequence as the text
that is the answer to question one
will be located at the top of the
paragraphs
the answer for question two will be
located beneath that in the paragraph
and question three beneath that so it's
pretty much the same
you just have to work your way through
the paragraphs
and at the same time work your way
through the questions okay don't be
intimidated by the length of the
passages
okay you can do it at a bio
why did you keep writing ielts exams
when your results are awesome in the
first
two sittings so adebayo i
took the ielts exam five times for
research purposes i really
felt that as a teacher if i hadn't
actually
taken the exam myself then i would feel
a little bit what's the word
non-authentic
that certainly helped me a lot as a
teacher having taken that test five
times
because i can really sympathize not just
about
what's in the test and different
questions but also the psychological
aspect of the test
because it's very stressful and i
understand what it's like now
to take a speaking test or do a reading
test while
under enormous stress so if your ielts
teacher has not taken the ielts
themselves then
maybe find another teacher or just stick
with us at e2
vasanth in the computer delivered ielts
will i be provided with a piece of paper
during the listening section
yes you will
sasun jay can i take a water bottle into
the ielts speaking exam
sasson i actually don't know the answer
to that you're only in there for
11 to 14 minutes but i understand when
you get a bit nervous sometimes your
mouth gets dry
i believe the answer is yes i don't see
any reason why you're
not allowed to bring a water bottle in
you'll have to check with your exam
center i'm sorry if you do find out the
answer
let us know in the comments below a law
has a question about
reading and a law finds doing the match
headings question particularly difficult
so allah this is how it
works you're going to have a list of
headings okay and then you're going to
have a number of
paragraphs what you need to do is go
from the paragraph
to the headings that is read the
paragraph
understand it fully then glance at the
headings and think which
one best summarizes that paragraph pick
it go to the next paragraph
read it carefully look at the headings
and think which of the headings best
summarizes that paragraph
pick it move on that's how you do that
one go from paragraph
or paragraphs to headings don't go
from the heading to the paragraphs you
just won't be able to do it
andre asks would you take a one-way
ticket to mars
absolutely not i like planet earth
it's just why the hell do we want to go
to mars anyway it's like this dusty
hot planet earth is beautiful it's got
rivers and rain forests and funky
animals and
lots of other nice things gnome
asks if you could time travel when where
would you go
funnily enough gnome i was thinking
about time travel the other day and i
think it's actually
impossible because there is no time
in which you can travel is there
think about it have you ever been to the
past it doesn't exist
or the future it doesn't exist these are
mental concepts
only the presence exists or the present
cool so that's the ama for april 2021.
thanks very much for watching remember
if you
have any questions at all pop them into
the comments below
make them specific remember to check out
e2language.com
my name is jay see you soon
[Music]
you